I thought it would be worth it to talk a little bit more about the tools that you need with regards
to mobile.
Previously I talked about you need for a web.
I still think you need the poem in d'Oro or there's some kind of a timer app to stay focused.
You're also still going to need google docs so that you can type out all of the bugs that you run into.
The difference in mobile is that you also need mobile devices that can be tricky depending on what environment
you built your application for.
If you build it for iPhone and Android then I think you ignored some of the advice I had earlier in
the course where I said stick to one or try to minimize your launch so you can minimize the cost upfront
to validate your idea.
You know if you're super confident when you can do then yes you can launch for two regardless.
In either case you'll find this information somewhat useful if you're trying to test for an iPhone app.
The number one thing you need to do is you need to have test flight.
This is something that your developer if they are an iPhone developer they should be more than acquainted
with testify allows you to launch applications to private parties without sending it to the App Store.
When you submit an application to the App Store it can take anywhere from two days to three weeks for
it to get approved.
That's insane.
Just to get the first version out to bug test.
So you don't want to do that.
Test flight.
It's a great system for uploading small packages.
You can send it to your friends and family and everyone can download it.
They can all participate in the bug hunting and it will also help you keep track of versions so you
can upload a version save it download it and then every time they have a new version they can upload
it and you can always revert backwards and then download an older version.
If something's screwed up that's a great system you've got back by Apple.
Great great great past that.
What I'd suggest using is make sure for iPhone that you have the three main resolutions you don't need
to worry about iPhone 3 anymore.
If you want to do a good job at this you should have access to at least two of them.
Hopefully you have five and you have a six at the point which I'm speaking right now five is the biggest
and six is up and coming but obviously you need four or five and six.
I know a lot of people who still use force.
So if you can access those three it's pretty easy.
You just got to do the same testing and all three and do the same kind of Pomodoro just run a test on
each one see if there's something in Notice that exists on law that doesn't exist on the other now be
built an Android app.
You don't use test flight.
Just ask your developer what they prefer to use to send you development packages.
Hopefully in either case your Android or iPhone ask them for an o t a package meaning over the air meaning
you just go to a Web site and download it.
You don't have to call it on your computer and plug in your phone.
It's just unnecessary.
Hopefully a developer knows how to do that in the studio.
They definitely know how to do that.
If he built an Android app.
God help you.
There are so many different resolutions you need to test.
You used to be that there were you know four or five Android resolutions back when there was only one
iPhone resolution.
But it's really exploded.
I think it's unrealistic that you're going to test this on every single resolution.
There are one Web site that are often referred to they listed out that there are 4000 distinct devices
and I don't even know how many resolutions there are hundreds is my guess.
I think with Android it's the case that you can capture 70 percent of the market in probably three resolutions.
I want you to keep it simple.
Just stay realistic.
It's unrealistic think you're in a test.
15 different Android screens.
Stick with the basics.
And I call this the galaxy test.
The galaxies are aligned by Samsung that are very popular amongst Android users.
They have the most popular resolutions.
So the way you do this is you follow the resolution of the Galaxy S one galaxy s one is a hundred by
four eighty pixels.
You skipped the s2 because of the same size as the S1.
Go to this three.
That's 12 80 by 720 and then ask for is 1920 by 10 80.
Those are the resolutions you want to test for.
So your best shot is to try to get some kind of Android phone that matches hopefully two of those three.
Obviously when you build your application law ask specifically what resolutions you want if they don't
ask you to please tell them and if you want to keep your costs low.
Pick one or two or pick three.
These are the three that I think and in my experience are the best to follow.
They are the most common but they're also the most easily adaptable to other screen resolutions because
they're all kind of based off of a similar grid to these.